Feature/documentation (#17)
EspeoBlockchain/gardener-server: docs/making-requests.rst

.. _making-requests:

---------------
Making requests
---------------

Request types
=============

> You have at your disposal two types of requests. You can use either request, which should fulfill as fast as possible or make a schedule one at some point of time in a future.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At your disposal you have two types of requests. You can use either an instant request, which should fulfill as fast as possible or schedule a delyed request, performed at a specific point of time in the future.
```

Instant requests
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> To perform instant request you need to call :code:`request(string _url)` method in :code:`Oracle` contract passing as it's only parameter url wrapped in a format type you want to get back. More about format types here.

Reviewer: Missing link for "here"

Delayed requests
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> To perform request, which will be executed in a future you need to call :code:`delayedRequest(string url, uint delay)` method in :code:`Oracle` contract passing as it's first parameter wrapped url and amount of time you need to wait before execution.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To perform request, which will be executed in the future you need to call :code:`delayedRequest(string url, uint delay)` method in :code:`Oracle` contract passing as it's first parameter wrapped url and amount of time you need to wait before execution.
```

> You can pass delay parameter in two ways, as a unix timestamp or as a relative number of seconds. Both options you can set as 2 years from now at maximum.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The delay parameter can be given in two ways: as a unix timestamp or as a relative number of seconds. Using both options you can delay a request for a maximum of 2 years from now.
```

Request sources
===============

Currently we support only open REST API sources. In the future we plan to implement:

- IPFS
- random data
- closed APIs

Response formats
================

> Currently we support JSON, XML and HTML formats. In the future we plan to support only raw binary data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Currently we support JSON, XML and HTML formats. In the future we plan to support also raw binary data.
```

JSON format
~~~~~~~~~~~

To parse and select response in a JSON format use JSON(...) wrapper. You can also query response following JsonPath.

Example request
::

    json(https://api.coindesk.com/v1/bpi/currentprice.json).chartName

Example response
::

    value: "Bitcoin"
    error: 0

Example request with error
::

    json(https://api.coindesk.com/v1/bpi/currentprice.json).sth

Example response with error
::

    value: ""
    error: 4004

XML format
~~~~~~~~~~

To parse and select response in a XML format use XML(...) wrapper. You can also query response following XPath.

Example request
::

>     xml(http://samples.openweathermap.org/data/2.5/weather?q=London&mode=xml&appid=b6907d289e10d714a6e88b30761fae22)/current/temperature/@value

Reviewer: Is the appid parameter a secret?

Example response
::

    value: "280.15"
    error: 0

HTML format
~~~~~~~~~~~

To parse and select response from HTML site use HTML(...) wrapper. You can also query response following XPath.

Example request
::

    html(https://www.w3schools.com)/html/head/title

Example response
::

    value: "W3Schools Online Web Tutorials"
    error: 0

Response error codes
====================

> When you requests can be fulfilled succesfully you would get value with error code equals to 0. Any non zero error code means some problems. We support standard HTTP status codes, which are simply proxy from http client. Moreover we support some custom errors, which are gathered in a table below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you requests can be fulfilled succesfully you would get value with error code equals to 0. Any non zero error code means that the request failed to process. Any three-digit code is standard HTTP status code, proxied from the HTTP client. Four-digit errors come from the Gardener server and are listed in the table below.
```

========================== ========== ===========
Error name                 Error code Description
========================== ========== ===========
INVALID_URL                1000       Text between type(...) wrapper isn't valid url
INVALID_CONTENT_TYPE       1001       This response format wrapper isn't supported

> INVALID_SELECTOR           4000       Your selector isn't valid JsonPath or XmlPath

Reviewer: ```suggestion
INVALID_SELECTOR           4000       The selector isn't valid JsonPath or XmlPath
```

> NO_MATCHING_ELEMENTS_FOUND 4004       Applying your selector results in zero found elements

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NO_MATCHING_ELEMENTS_FOUND 4004       No elements found for given selector
```
